---
layout: post
title: Preface
date: 2024-06-04 00:32:13
description: Welcome to the Latent Space
tags:
categories:
tabs: true
---


### Why are we here? Why a blog?

If you had told me before that I would start a blog during my third year, I would have called you crazy. I’ve never been the best writer; historically, I have shied away from doing more than necessary in English class. If I had to guess why, I’d say it stemmed from a fear of not being able to express my thoughts clearly and a general discomfort with the writing process. If you need more detail on that, just ask my 11th and 12th-grade English teacher, [Mrs. Beasley](https://www.lcps.org/domain/20350), who will be more than happy to share her thoughts. However, I've come to appreciate the importance and art of writing and, more broadly, being able to convey a message in your head eloquently and effectively. Writing isn’t just about putting words on paper; it’s about painting a picture with those words, making your readers see and feel what you’re experiencing. I’ve been writing more for research lately, and practicing that skill in a more informal setting will hopefully be beneficial. The ability to express complex ideas succinctly and persuasively is a skill I’m eager to master, and this blog provides the perfect platform for that. I hope to read this post in a couple of years and cringe at how I worded this piece and the angle from which I approached formulating my thoughts.

But it’s not just about improving my writing—I have ulterior motives. I’m curious to see how crystallizing my thoughts can help me understand more about myself and track my progress. The way I navigate this [game we call life](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S2-bjGkcaJI&ab_channel=DanielRodrigues) and the experiences I encounter along the way shape who I am and allow me to grow as an individual. This blog serves as a way to document this growth. Every moment, every challenge, and every triumph is a step forward in my personal evolution, and capturing these moments in writing helps me to reflect and learn from them. In addition to documenting my growth, writing is a great way to more concretely organize the many things we process each day in our heads. By putting my thoughts into words, I hope to make sense of the chaos in my mind, prioritize my ideas, and gain clarity on my goals and aspirations.

### Why post it publicly?

Well, mostly to hold myself to a standard. Although I know that not many people will be reading this—mainly just my friends and family—I’m aware that the potential audience on the internet is billions. Knowing this will hopefully keep my writing style and formalities in check. However, as my friends can definitely attest, I’m not perfect. I will make jokes that fall flat; I might unintentionally offend others and ramble about topics and theories nobody can follow or understand. But I believe this is what makes us human: the ability to grow and learn from our mistakes. If my goal is to document my journey and crystallize the thoughts bottled up in my mind, I must be okay with making these mistakes and learning from them. So, with that all being said, welcome to my blog.